multiple Israeli politicians and
military leaders have been using
inflammatory language when referring to
Palestinians in Gaza and this is
something that began well before Hamas
launched its military
offensive no electricity no food no
water no fuel everything will be closed
we are fighting against human
animals that was the Israeli defense
minister yuav Galant referring to
members of Hamas his language was echoed
by senior military leaders
Israel's farri government regularly uses
racist and dehumanizing language which
normalizes violence against Palestinians
the national security minister posted
this comment on social media supporting
an ultra nationalist Israeli accused of
attacking Palestinians in the occupied
West Bank
here's the statement a Jew who defends
himself and others against the murder of
Palestinians is not a murder suspect but
a hero who will receive my full support
and the far-right fin Finance Minister
bezel smartr openly said that the
Palestinian town of horaa should be
quote erased that was after hundreds of
Israeli settlers went on a rampage
burning dozens of Palestinian homes and
killing one person AKA Eldar joins us
from Tel Aviv he is a political analyst
and columnist for heds thank you for
coming on to talk about this with us
first start by giving us your
perspective on this language that we've
been hearing from high ranking Israeli
officials sir let you just said it's not
a completely new phenomena uh this kind
of discourse of uh
dehumanization of the other
started many many years ago begging the
first first leader of the leud uh has
called Arafat an animal walking on two
legs uh this is a language that was used
to called to describe Adolf Hitler the
uh Nazi terrorist the Nazi uh leader um
I I can't justify the uh operation the
uh murder of children women
raping um members of the communities and
kibuts in the South uh there is a
difference between this and what Israel
is doing and uh um I I can pull out
dozens of articles that I wrote
criticizing the
Israeli uh conduct in the West Bank and
Gaza uh now what you see is using the
anger and the frustration from uh the
Israeli military and political blunders
serial blunders um in order to pave the
way
for uh as Manan just said uh an Israeli
Invasion and reoccupation of Gaza and uh
destroying communities there and
shutting down electricity and water
which is uh actually a human crime
against
humanity um but uh I afraid that uh it's
not only the language that is used
against the Palestinian or the Hamas I
have been labeled called a traitor
because I wrote articles criticizing
Nano uh people who were demonstrating to
defend the Israeli
democracy uh Pilots have been
dehumanized while they were in the field
in the front uh you could read in the
social media supporters of
netan um calling them fif K and uh
accusing them of collaborating with
Hamas so this is a slippery slope serial
it it will not end with the confront
this round of
Confrontation AA a couple different
things here first of all you were saying
um you were saying I can't condone uh
the raping of women in southern Israel
just a reminder we got that Hamas
statement maybe about 15 minutes ago
where they categorically deny in their
words assaulting women um just want to
put that out there my question was going
to be what do Israelis think when they
hear this language Human animals etc
etc um well I'm sure that uh EO people
down there in near T Aviv can find the
footage of uh a bunch of Israeli
holigans entering now uh a hospital and
looking for a Palestinian who uh was
wounded and treated by Israeli doctors
and shouting death to the Arabs and
trying to attack the doctors who were
defending the uh patients so of course
it penetrates into the society um if you
watch soccer games in Israel you can
hear those people shouting death to the
Arabs and assaulting uh Israeli Arabs
who are fighting for the national who
are playing in the national team so it
works for them and it works politically
to dehumanize everybody who doesn't
support the Israeli right or the Israeli
settlers uh you know when I go to cover
um the uh conduct of the settlers I am
more afraid that I will not get back
home safely not because I am afraid of
the Palestinians who live nearby but of
the settlers so it is not just a racist
uh dehumanization of Palestinian it's a
a
political uh maneuver it's I think a
system it's a method to get the support
because netan is a master he's a
Salesman of hatred and this is what he's
doing best AKA Eldar thank you so much
for joining us on the program you're a
political analyst and columnist at har
it's good to talk to you today thank you